# CSE218- Historic Stock For Amazon and Tesl
In this project, I use javafx to build a desktop app that allows the user to search through 20 years of daily Amazon or tesla stock data.

A stock is a small portion of the ownership of a corporation which is available for the public to buy and sell as they wish. A stock may increase or decrease in price depending on how many people are buying or selling the stock on that particular day. For daily trading there are five important aspects about a stock that can help predict future outcome if collected over a period of time, those are; the open, close, high, low price and volume of a share in a day. For my final project for CSE 218, Data Structures and Algorithm’s college course, I was assigned to obtain 20 years of historic daily trading Prices and store them in the most efficient data structure and create a user interface where the user may search for a given stock at a certain day, search within a range, graph it and add stock information.
The data structure that I chose to store 20 years of stock data was a HashMap because of its time complexity benefits. An algorithm’s time complexity is based on how a certain algorithm is able to handle a set of data no matter the size, any algorithm is “fast” when the data set is a few hundred elements, however when using the same algorithm with one million data sets, the algorithm can lag and take a long time to complete. HashMap is one of the best algorithms known to Software Engineers because of its fast time complexity which happens to be O(1) (it doesn’t get faster than that). Since we know the number of stocks within the last 20 year, I am allowed to use a HashMap therefore it has a time complexity of O(1).
One of the biggest challenges brought on by this project is the ability to connect my java program with the internet and to have it read JSON. Before this project I was not aware of the existence of JSON format, which is a very simple yet complicated format to learn. The API that I used came from https://alphavantage.co, in where you are given a key to access a data base. From this website I was able to read the Json file and using Jackson Libraries translate them into objects which I made in my program. I bridged java with the internet using a given URL to the API, this means that all the information on the website is downloaded to java and converted into objects at the same time. I simply added those objects to the HashMap and that was it for Data Structures, the rest was user interface and using HashMap.
User interfaces can be hard to code, however there are some tools that make the creation process a little less annoying, for this project the tool I used was Scene Builder. Scene Builder is an application that lets you drag and drop nodes, those include buttons, textboxes, texts, text fields, graphs and more. It makes the user interface more attainable and instead of creating a JavaFX hard-coded pane, it creates a fxml which can be easily controlled with a controller java class. When creating the GUI, my though process was to make everything as easy as possible for the user, I made simple methods that could be reused by any given class if it was needed in the future. I organized the program in such a way that only one HashMap would be used by the program and that each page was reused by any of the selected Stocks. You can see that the program uses the same page for both stocks, that makes the program more generic for future stocks to be added.
A similar data structure that could have been used was a TreeMap, where the big O complexity is log(n). Although this is also a relatively good, it is still not as good as O(1). Another reason as to why a TreeMap was not the preferred over a HashMap is because we knew the number of stocks. It can be argued that using a TreeMap could have been beneficial since a it can grow and new data can be added to the structure. However my program makes a new HashMap every time the program Is used and bases its size on the number of stocks in the last 20 years.
Stocks are a very important aspect in a Company’s economical survival, this is why there are so many programs that read and analyze stock-data to predict a future price. I successfully was able to implement a program that reads a Json File from a API and stores the stock data into a HashMap. My program allows the user to search a stock, search within a Range, graph that range and add a new stock to the Data Structure. Overall, this final project was very intriguing and introduced me to new technologies such as Json format and Java data connection.
